# Frog Fractions Build Machine
This nixos configuration describes a simple build machine that has:
- KDE plasma with RDP support
- Avahi to declare the hostname frog-fractions over the network
- Remote deployment of configurations for authorized users
- Simple and minimal to add the packages you would need

## Why NixOS?
When creating a machine for solely testing it is nice to be able to deterministically tell what is in the machine. Therefore, this allows us to do it pretty nicely with no virtualization at all. This is beneficial for the performance as you could run several tasks in parallel. Additionally, the config is easily scalable and reproducible if someone were to want a VM to run it (which can be done with NixOS virtual machines).

## Module philosophy
The idea is that if we remove a module (except for system.nix and hardware-configuration.nix) the system should still boot and run. Please try making modules that encapsulate a whole feature that way they are easily toggleable (you could packages to have options like regular NixOS but that is overkill).

## For fanta
This is a minimal config that is going to give you the bare minimum desktop to be able to construct your automation pipeline.
There are several things you might want to add here so just feel free to start by reading the comments in the current files.
Then I would recommend checking out the tutorials (see below) for more specific tasks you might need.

## Resources
Beyond asking me/goose for support with the extra features you might need, the following resources are good:

### As general references
- [NixOS wiki](https://wiki.nixos.org/wiki/NixOS_Wiki) for the general information on common settings
- [Nix Pills](https://nixos.org/guides/nix-pills/) Great book on nix as a whole

### As tutorials
- [nix.dev](https://nix.dev/) Great for tutorials on common things you'd need to do with nix
- [NixAcademy](https://nixcademy.com/posts/) as amazing tutorials on images and other stuff (yes,,,, I don't like the AI images, but the content is stellar)

### As package searchers
- [nixpkgs official repo](https://github.com/nixos/nixpkgs) Amazing reference if you end up wanting to use nix as the main build environment (reminder to change branches to match the version you are using in the inputs)
- [MyNixos](https://mynixos.com/) Nice website to see the documentation generated by the packages (good for specific package queries)
- [Nix Package Search](https://search.nixos.org/packages?channel=unstable&include_home_manager_options=1&include_modular_service_options=1&include_nixos_options=1) same as MyNixos but different (better for finding keywords in the descriptions)

### When nothing seems to work
- Just google it and pray
- Gemini is pretty good to get you started, bad to make a good conifg (it sometimes redeclares defaults because most nix out there is in nixpkgs)
